Main idea: Classifying "X-states" as the subalgebra $$su(2) \times su(2) \times u(1)$$  of $$su(4)$$

* An "X-state" is a $$4\times 4$$ Hermitian matrix that's zero except on both diagonals. Described by 7 real parameters. Bell state included.

* Can be represented by elements on the Fano plane (triangle with circle inside). It has one fully commuting element, and each of other 6 is part of two sets of anti-commuting elements, plus 1 "conjugate" (commuting) element.
  * This representation makes it easier to do calculations on X-states (for things like "quantum discord" and "concurrence")
* Making an X-state: $$\rho + X_1 \rho X_1^\dagger$$  where $$X_1$$ is the fully commuting element.
  *  (Each of 15 operators in  $$su(4)$$ commutes with 6 and anticommutes with the other 8)
  *  There are 15 possible $$su(2) \times su(2) \times u(1)$$ subalgebras. Some represent different things.
* Can be viewed as a stabilizer
  * If your H is an X-state, and you're in an X-state, you'll stay in an X-state!
  * If you sandwich with another Pauli operator, It may be become an X-state in a new representation

##### Other thoughts:

* Can be viewed as two independent qubits plus a phase shift $$u(1)$$
  * How is this related to two Bloch spheres?
  * Can model dissipation as an X-state
* What do the non-equivalent X-states look like? Are any of them useful?
* In $$su(2) \times su(2)$$ what restrictions on $$g$$ make it a pure state? (as an analogy to $$I/2 + a \cdot \sigma /2$$ is pure iff $$||a|| = 1)$$ Is there a way to categorize it?
