## Main points

This is a potential use for boson sampling.(simple, non-universal form of quantum computing)

It's possible that estimating boson sampling is inefficient, related to matrix permanents.

Scott Aaronson is skeptical of this proposal, see [his blog post here](https://www.scottaaronson.com/blog/?p=5159).


## how this works
* bosons sampled as output distribution of photons from a linear quantum optical network
* coherent light to excite identical molecules and measured scattered radiation to infer vibrational spectra

These two are equivalent with a non-linear state preparation step.
* it is hard to calculate franck-condon (FC) factors with duschinsky mode mixing
* by modifying the input state, this can be performed efficiently with boson sampling

## math
* expand coherent state in terms of fock states
* create rotated creation operators (rotation matrix turns coherent "in" state to coherent "out" state)
* the transition probability (FC factor):
  * is proportional to a cell of the permanent matrix, which is in #P
  * since it is also proportional to partial derivative of $$e^{\gamma^\dagger U \alpha}$$, perhaps calculating dynamics of vibrational modes is also hard.

## how to model vibronic transition
* electronic transition of molecule induces nuclear changes at new state
* Duschinsky: $$q' = Uq + d$$  (real rotation and displacement)
* transition probability related to partial derivatives plus extra terms
* FC profile at 0K -- what happens to the initial vacuum state? The best algorithms to compute this become intractable as system size / temperature increase.
  * Related to calculating $$\omega_{vib} = \sum_k \omega'_k m_k$$ 

## Boson sampling
* Assume all frequencies are identical, no displacement, then Duschinsky is boson sampling.
* Then can set up appratus to squeeze states, scatter photons, then squeeze states again
  * The second squeezing operation is difficult -- may need a non-linear interaction!
  * Can use SVD to rotate operators, it's just boson sampling with squeezed coherent states (i.e. not Fock states). 
