## Main idea
depth-1 QAOA generates a distribution that cannot be efficiently sampled

## Details
* explains QAOA, polynomial hierarchy (PH), post-selected quantum computing
* efficiently computing the matrix elements of QAOA on a classical computer would collapse PH
* efficient sampling of arbitrary quantum circuits implies PH collapse (using post-selected quantum computing)

They also discuss the adiabatic algorithm (they call it QADI, but others call it QAA);
they show that even with a quantum adiabatic oracle, efficiently sampling from depth-1 QAOA would collapse PH.


From the paper:
> Our paper is organized as follows.  First we review the basic ingredients of the QAOA. Since weare going to use complexity theory arguments to argue that it is difficult to simulate this algorithm,we review some of the needed complexity theory.  We explain what the Polynomial Hierarchy (PH)is  and  what  it  means  for  it  to  collapse.   In  Section  3,  we  show  why  the  ability  to  compute  ona  classical  computer  the  matrix  elements  of  the  QAOA  would  collapse  the  PH.  But  to  discusswhy sampling the output distribution of the QAOA is also hard for complexity theory reasons weneed to discuss Post-Selected Quantum Computing which we do in Section 4.  Using Post-SelectedQuantum Computing as a tool, in Section 5 we show that the efficient sampling of the output ofan arbitrary quantum circuit implies the collapse of the PH. This leads up to our new result (inSections 6 and 7) that efficient sampling from the output of the QAOA also collapses the PH. InSection 8 we turn to a discussion of sampling from the output of the Quantum Adiabatic Algorithmbeing run in optimization mode.  We review the assumptions needed to enable efficient samplingfrom this type of quantum circuit.  Here we argue that this may in fact be easier than sampling fromthe output of the QAOA. We conclude with a discussion of what these results mean for near-termquantum computers
