
Computing the partition function is related to approximating the ground state.

This is a polynomial approximation algorithm for quantum spin systems.

It converts the Hamiltonian into a sum of edge contributions of a graph. There are several methods to find $$Z(\beta) = Tr(e^{-\beta H})$$:

* correlation decay analysis
* MCMC
* interpolation

This uses "abstract cluster expansion". A polymer in the quantum instance (QCE) is a multiset of hyperedges, with multiplicities per hyperedge, using a connected subgraph.

* This is possible because at high temperature, $$\beta$$ is bounded
* The truncation of the subgraph measures the locality

I read the paper and was impressed by its presentation:

* Main results up front, with clear introduction, explanation of definitions (like "fully polynomial approximation scheme")
* Neat sections, with explanations of the sections at the end of the introduction
* Appendices for the equation manipulation

##### Things to clarify

* Why is the degree O(log d Delta)? Why is it not just Delta?
* ∼ is a symmetric compatibility relation such that each polymer is incompatible with itself ... what is this? Any symmetric subset of P(X) where (a, a) is not included?
* Why is Z(C, w) the form it is?
* Why is the Ursell function involved?
  * Is V(H) the number of vertices in the graph? Is this just $$\vert\Gamma\vert$$?
  * The summation is the sum of connected, spanning subsets of edges?
  * This will only have a value for clusters!
* I didn't walk through Lemma 2, 4, 6, 7
* Lemma 5:
  * All connected subgraphs of size at most m -- why can it be done in $$\vert V\vert e^m$$?
  * Why are there (m-1 choose n-1) polymers of size at most m?
* Lemma 8: how many clusters are there? $$\vert V\vert ^{O(1)}$$
