---
tags: [superconducting, qubit, quantum-sensing]
---

## Main idea
A superconducting qubit is used to count photons deposited in a microwave cavity. This is used as a sensor for dark matter candidates that would potentially convert into light.

## Background
Certain dark matter candidates could produce light in the microwave regime that can be captured in a resonant microwave cavity. The typical technique is to amplify the cavity signal to measure the presence of this small amount of light. This however, is subject to the standard quantum limit (a manifestation of the Heisenberg uncertainty principle), which means the noise level is around the one photon level. This is too large to measure small signals expected from the dark matter. In this work, rather than amplify both the in phase and out of phase components of the electric field in the cavity, the authors count the photons present. This results in maximun uncertainty in the phase information of the cavity state, but very accurate information about the cavity amplitude.


## Results
Counting photons is an improvement over the linear amplification techniques that are typically used for this type of dark matter detection. The authors take advantage of the quantum non demolition nature of the qubit-cavity interaction to measure the cavity photons many times without destroying it. This makes it possible to be very certain about the presence of a photon even amongst the various experimental and device errors that could occur. The noise achieved in this experiement, is 1,300 times lower than a quantum limited amplification readout.
