## Main idea
* using a classical computer to optimize VQE or QAOA is NP-hard.

## Implications
* It is hard to figure out what parameters are best for a quantum circuit!
* It's not about the hardness of "finding the ground state" (QMA hardness), it's about the optimization procedure
* local approaches to minimize variational algorithms can get stuck in very bad local minima

## Four settings showing hardness
1. oracle: quantum computer; proving the optimization is NP-hard even if constant relative precision
2. ground state problem is easy; log(n) qubits
3. ground state problem is easy; free fermions
4. ground state problem is easy; QAOA setup

## Details
* Considers "Continuous MaxCut" which is equivalent to MaxCut. Continuous MaxCut has d real parameters to tune.
* Proof: reduce Continuous MaxCut to a "minimize a variational algorithm" problem, showing NP-hardness
* Use a "boosting technique" to amplify errors -- showing that efficiently solving a variational algorithm could improve beyond approximation bounds for MaxCut.
* with log(n) qubits, can still be reduced from continuous max cut (since hamiltonian still is size n). Uses ergodic energy spectrum to show this is true even for 1 layer circuits. This shows that minimizing the expectation of a time-evoled observable is also NP-hard.
* This then reduces to QAOA, even for depth 1!

Authors show classical training of variational quantum algorithms is NP-hard. No poly-time algorithm can have optimization error ∆ < 1 for all instances; hardness holds for log-many qubits or free fermions. ([Twitter](https://twitter.com/JoshuahHeath/status/1351913954214367236))
