---
tags: [quantum-MaxCut, QAOA]
---
## Main point
A natural way to try to improve the energy of a state, with respect to a hamiltonian H, is to "locally rotate" the state towards the span of the hamiltonian. But this has the obvious issue that the energy of other terms may get disturbed. We solve this issue by finding a QAOA inspired commuting circuit that disturbs at most a constant number of other terms (constant is roughly the degree of the graph) and also achieves the goal of "rotating towards the span" to some extent.

## FAQ

 * What do you mean that most algorithms optimize over the set of product states? Do you just refer to classical algorithms?

> No, this was in the quantum context and was about many recent papers [11],[13],[14],[15],[17] that focused on product states, rather than low depth circuits.


* If I understand, it can take a product state that is already 'pretty
good' and make it better with a shallow quantum circuit. Is that
correct?

> It improves the energy of any product state (does not have to be pretty good), as long as the product state has large variance. That's theorem 1. Theorem 3 actually shows that some entangled states can also be improved, including tensor network states with gapped parent hamiltonians.


* How do you recover and generalize performance guarantees of known algorithms? Which ones in particular?

> This is discussed in the 2nd column of Page 5 , with known algorithms cited. By "generalize", we mean extended to quantum hamiltonians.

