---
tags: [simulating-quantum-circuits]
---
## Main ideas

* "stabilizer states" -- states that are classically simulable
* "magic" -- the computational power of non-stabilizer states

### Measures of magic

* relative entropy of magic (computing an extreme over Pauli decompositions)
* this paper: "Renyi entropy" -- probability of a state represented by a Pauli string

### Renyi entropy
Consider $$ \langle \psi | P | \psi \rangle ^2 $$ that's normalized to be a probability distribution.

Then define Renyi entropies (p log p)
* faithful (0 iff a stabilizer state)
* stability under free operations
* additivity over tensor product

The 2-entropy is bounded by log(d).

The Renyi entropy is between the min-relative entropy and the stabilizer nullity.
* the min-relative entropy is related to the maximum stabilizer overlap
* the stabilizer nullity is the number of Paulis that don't affect the state up to a sign.

The main benefit is that it's computable for various n.

### Magic Power

How much "magic" is produced by unitary evolution?

Let's consider the magic of a unitary (the magic generated from an average stabilizer state)

The linear magic power is zero iff the unitary commutes with a matrix related to the projector onto $$S_4$$.

Most unitaries are concentrated in magic power around log(d/4).

The magic power lower-bounds the t-count (with high probability, $$t(U) = \Omega(n)$$.

This gives a way to characterize t-counts as "how much extraclassical computation" you are doing.
Three T gates are worth more than Toffoli gates.

### Out-of-time-order correlation

We need order N gates to get 8-OTOC (related to quantum chaos). How much magic is needed to drive a quantum system towards chaos?

We can talk about a random Clifford circuit, "doped" by layers of non-clifford one-qubit gates. The magic power increases with the number of doping layers.

The Renyi entropy is directly related to the 2-OTOC functions.
