---
tags: [variational quantum algorithms]
---

## Main idea

* This work proposes a novel variational quantum amplitude estimation (VQAE) algorithm with the potential to deliver a quantum advantage on near-term quantum computers.
The algorith combines the ideas of the original quantum amplitude estimation (QAE) algorithm and the variational quantum algorithmic method.

## Background

* Monte Carlo (MC) is a technique commonly used to calculate expectation values of real-valued functions with some probability distributions.
QAE provides a quadratic quantum speedup over MC method by using Grover's quantum amplification technique.

* Variational quantum algorithms use parametrized quantum circuits trained via some classical optimizer.
This approach allows to overcome constrains of currently available NISQ devices, such as a restricted qubit number and a limited maximum circuit depth.

* VQAE is based on the maximum maximum likelihood version of the QAE algorithm considered in the work [Y. Suzuki et al., Quantum Inf. Process. 19, 75 (2020)].
Furthermore, VQAE simplifies a step which relies on repeatedly applying a Grover operator.
VQAE uses the Grover operator only a fixed number of times and performs a variational optimization once the circuit depth treshold is reached.

## Results

* Shallow variational quantum circuits can accurately approximate many amplitude amplification steps of the QAE algorithm.

* Variational approximation cost represents the main source of the quantum advantage loss.

* By using an adaptive rescaling of the amplitude, variational approximation cost can be significantly reduced,
making it possible for the VQAE to outperform classical MC sampling.

