---
tags: [QAOA, Quantum-annealing, dynamical-decoupling, NISQ]
---

## Main idea
The central idea of the paper is to provide a rigorous comparison between QAOA and Quantum annealing.
In order to do this, the authors constructed very specific Ising models that matched the connectivity graph of the current IBMQ quantum computers, which have a heavy-hex graph, and the Pegasus connectivity graph of the D-Wave quantum annealer.
The QAOA circuit construction uses a CNOT depth of 6 per round, which means these very short depth QAOA circuits can actually be run on the entire 127 qubit chip of ibm_washington.
The Ising models also contained higher order terms, which further tests the capabilities of both QAOA (which can natively handle higher order terms) and Quantum annealing. For the Quantum annealing implementation, custom order-reduction techniques were used to embed the problems onto the chip, and problem instances were executed in parallel.
Dynamical decoupling was also tested on the QAOA circuits.



## Background
QAOA and Quantum annealing are both types of computation that address combinatorial optimization problems.
It is of interest to investigate how these two algorithms perform, especially when there is noise in the computation, and how they compare to each other.

## Results
The primary result is that quantum annealing performs better than QAOA, specifically when these QAOA circuits were executed on ibm_washington.
Importantly, the QAOA circuit and the QA order reduction algorithm are both scalable, meaning that the problem instances and algorithms can be applied to future hardware as new devices increase in scale and fidelity.
